# Beware, Strong Opinions Ahead

> Strong opinions, weakly/weekly held.

Strong opinions are those wrought in the furnace of extensive research
and personal experience. They aren't strong just because you really,
really believe in them, or because you have believed them for a really
long time, or because you wrote them in a highly publicised book or blog
or paper, or because everyone agrees enthusiastically with you.

Strong opinions are the result of formal and informal scientific
research. They are strong because all the evidence suggests that --- in
a given situation --- they are, indeed, true, no matter how painful that
might be for some to admit, even for future you.

Strong opinions aren't enough, however. One must have the courage and
confidence to abandon a sacredly held belief (and believe me, there are
plenty in tech) when new information presents itself without shame or
apology. In fact, I change my position so much in tech (because the
landscape is radically changing almost monthly) that I've earned the
affectionate nickname "flip-flop Rob" from those I mentor. Just ask
anyone that knows me about my history with GitLab and GitHub, just to
name one.

The tech world is currently plagued by a lack of strong, informed
opinions. There's a lot of marketing hype, trend-chasing, straight-up
lying, and wishy-washy, "well that depends." If you are a beginner
looking for "one best option" picked out for them this can be
infuriating. You want something to get you started so you can learn to
challenge well-informed opinions on your own later.

How do I know this strong opinion I'm sharing right now is true? Because
hundreds have shared the personal frustration with me as I've mentored
them since 2013. Most just want to be told what do to. I've done my best
to address those frustrations by presenting what I've observed myself
with a brief explanation of why and where to go read more about my
conclusion. Then, I ask them to go with it for a while until they have
enough experience to supplement or replace what they've learned with me,
not unlike Mr. Miyagi, "wax on, wax off." 

Beginners of the martial arts dedicate themselves to learning a
particular style fully (usually from the same sensei) before moving on
to others. Learning tech is not unlike this, and learning to be
primarily proficient in the terminal (over GUI) is similar to learning a
very lethal form over common self-defense tactics. Will it take longer
to master? Yes, but not by as much as you might think, and the reward of
empowerment help you at every level of your tech career, or just life in
general. Tech is for artists and creatives as well.

There are other, kinder, less pedantic, offensive, and demanding mentors
out there, to be sure. They aren't me. I mean, I'm no Cobra Kai, and I'm
no drill sergeant. (I once worked for one, so I know.) But, if your
style doesn't match mine then it is best you stop reading now and find
someone else. I do sincerely hope you find one (and will do my best to
help you find one when asked).

My greatest joy from all of this is hearing those [few words of thanks
and praise](https://github.com/rwxrob/cv/blob/main/data.yml) usually
long after I've boosted several along on their own amazing paths.

