# Only Bash and POSIX Shell Progamming

I want to warn those reading who want to become software developers. Sorry, you'll need more than just what you can learn in *Terminal Velocity* but this is arguably the best start on your path to becoming a *good* software developer.

Every time you hit `Enter` from an interactive terminal command shell you are technically writing one like of code. So there *is* code in here, just Bash and POSIX shell scripting, which some might argue are not the best first languages a beginning software developer should learn. So if you are concerned with making the best first-coding impression on yourself you might consider learning programming basics in another language first (before reading *Terminal Velocity*) or just reading enough to get good with editing files and switch to learning your preferred first language.

As for the best first language to learn? I've worked with thousands to learn coding and my personal experience has been that learning  Python, then Go, then C gives the strongest foundation upon which to build everything else. Then, eventually, everyone should learn at a least minimal Web development with HTML, CSS, and basic JavaScript to understand how networking and the Interwebz works. I realize this is likely not what others have told you. Learning Web development as the first (and only) type of "software development" is extremely common on the Interwebz. You can always leverage your terminal mastery skills (as many popular streamers and YouTubers do) even if you decide later to just do Web development.
